docs: misc content & guide updates (#2359)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/start/metrics-parameters-plots.md

# Get Started: Metrics, Parameters, and Plots

DVC makes it easy to track [metrics](/doc/command-reference/metrics), update
<abbr>parameters</abbr>, and visualize performance with

> [plots](/doc/command-reference/plots). These concepts are introduced below.

Reviewer: Not sure about removing the Experiments link (recently introduced by @dberenbaum I think).

Author: experiments link (well, tooltip) added to an aside/note in the next para.

Reviewer 2: The rationale for including the link was to encourage users to look at experiments for how to use these concepts, since tracking parameters and metrics without doing multiple experiments probably doesn't have much value. What's the rationale for removing it? Then we can decide what makes sense.

Author: Hmm. This was my logic:

- page title: X Y Z
- first para: introduce X Y Z
- aside: see also A

whereas before it was:

- page title: X Y Z
- first para: X Y A(?) Z

Just to clarify @dberenbaum it's not *re*moved - simply moved:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10780059/117354021-c521d680-aea8-11eb-82ad-5c8c5739083c.png)

Reviewer: Ah I didn't notice that was turned into a note either, sorry my bad. Looks OK to me then! Except that it's not clear what "Read on to see how it's done" refers to, maybe should be part of the top p? But that p already has "These concepts are introduce below," should prob be either or

### 💡 Expand to see what happens under the hood.

The `-M` option here specifies a metrics file, while `--plots-no-cache`

> specifies a plots file produced by this stage which will not be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifies a plots file (produced by this stage) which will not be
```

The biggest difference to previous stages in our pipeline is in two new
sections: `metrics` and `plots`. These are used to mark certain files containing
ML "telemetry". Metrics files contain scalar values (e.g. `AUC`) and plots files

> contain matrices and data series (e.g. `ROC curves` or model loss plots) which
> are meant to be visualized and compared.

Reviewer: I think neither that nor which is best here for clarity:
```suggestion
contain matrices and data series (e.g. `ROC curves` or model loss plots) meant
to be visualized and compared.
```

[ROC-AUC](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/model_evaluation.html#receiver-operating-characteristic-roc)
and
[average precision](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/model_evaluation.html#precision-recall-and-f-measures)
to `scores.json`, which in turn is marked as a `metrics` file with `-M`. Its
contents are:

```json
{ "avg_prec": 0.5204838673030754, "roc_auc": 0.9032012604172255 }
```

`evaluate.py` also writes `precision`, `recall`, and `thresholds` arrays
(obtained using
[`precision_recall_curve`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.precision_recall_curve.html))

> into a `plots` file `prc.json`:

Reviewer: This was OK I think? "Plots file" is a thing (introduced earlier in this doc).
```suggestion
into plots file `prc.json`:
```

`evaluate.py` also writes `precision`, `recall`, and `thresholds` arrays
(obtained using
[`precision_recall_curve`](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.precision_recall_curve.html))

> into the plots file `prc.json`:

Reviewer: "into plots file `prc.json`" was correct.

[roc_curve](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.roc_curve.html)
into `roc.json` for an additional plot.

> DVC doesn't force you to use any specific file names, nor does it enforce a

> > format or structure of a metrics or plots file. It's completely user- and

Reviewer: That hyphen looks strange?
```suggestion
> format or structure of a metrics or plots file. It's completely user-and
```

Author: no, just avoiding suffix repetition (as with spoken English) to keep the tone light. Otherwise would have to say "user-defined and case-defined."

Reviewer: > There's a space between "user-" and "and"

That's the strange part. Looks a bit like a typo. Prob best to use the long form you mentioned then.

$ git commit -a -m "Create evaluation stage"
```

Later we will see how to
[compare and visualize different pipeline iterations](#comparing-iterations).
For now, let's see how can we capture another important piece of information
which will be useful for comparison: parameters.

## Defining stage parameters

It's pretty common for data science pipelines to include configuration files

> which define adjustable parameters to train a model, do pre-processing, etc. DVC

Reviewer: "That" was better here. With "which" it seems like we're suddenly talking about configuration files in general, and it's not true that all config files adjust parameters. Or we can go with "to":
```suggestion
to define adjustable parameters to train a model, do pre-processing, etc. DVC
```

+  ngrams: 2
```

The beauty of `dvc.yaml` is that all you need to do now is run:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
```

> It'll analyze the changes, use existing <abbr>run-caches</abbr>, and execute

Reviewer: There's only one run-cache. Can we rephrase a little? But it's probably not bad to insert the tooltip indeed.

> only the commands which are needed to produce new results (model, metrics,

Reviewer: "are needed to produce new results" is pretty restrictive here? That is, "execute only the commands" has no meaning by itself.
```suggestion
only the commands that are needed to produce new results (model, metrics,
```

plots).

The same logic applies to other possible adjustments — edit source code, update
datasets — you do the changes, use `dvc repro`, and DVC runs what needs to be.

## Comparing iterations

Finally, let's see how the updates improved performance. DVC has a few commands
to see metrics & parameter changes and to visualize plots (for one or more

> pipeline iterations). Let's compare the current "bigrams" run with the last

Reviewer: The punctuation change here is a bit misleading. There's a command to viz metrics, another one for params, and another one for plots. Now it looks as though maybe there's just one for metrics and params (not sure about using `&` either), and one for plots.

And yes `exp diff` includes metrics and params but we're not referring to that here 🙂 (they will all get merged probably anyway)

Author: ```suggestion
to see changes in and visualize metrics, parameters, and plots (for one or more
pipeline iterations). Let's compare the current "bigrams" run with the last
```

Reviewer: "see changes in and visualize" - too complex language IMO, we want to keep sentences simple 🙂

> [Git revisions](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitrevisions) (commits, tags, branch
> names) to compare.

> On the next page, you can learn advanced ways to track, organize, and compare

Reviewer: "In" was right?

Author: No, you find things on a website, on a sign, in a book, on a page
